How to Make Hash Oil The Easy Way

How to make hashish, increase the potency of your marijuana, and salvage bad weed that was unfit to smoke.

Do you want to know how to make hash the easiest way? It is very simple, and this method works for just about any grade of marijuana/cannabis, even clippings, trim, and plain old bunk.

Do you have some weed laying around that wasn't good enough to smoke? This method will salvage whatever can be salvaged from lousy weed, greatly improve its potency, and even turn bunk into something that is useful (for emergencies, anyway)..

Step 1. Get some alcohol

The active ingredients in marijuana dissolve readily in alcohol. You can find rubbing alcohol (isopropyl alcohol) at any drug store. It is cheap -- usually about a dollar per bottle.

BE SURE YOU DO NOT GET DENATURED ALCOHOL. Denatured alcohol contains ingredients that can be POISON. "Denaturing" is a process where they add ingredients to make the alcohol unsuitable for human consumption. If you use "denatured" alcohol, you will wind up with hashish that is unsafe to consume, and it will probably taste terrible, too.

If you cannot find alcohol in your drug store, you can also use any high-alcohol content rum or vodka, such as Everclear. If you are going to use rum or vodka you should note that the alcoholic beverage may contain additional ingredients that may modify the flavor of the resulting hashish, or make it harsher to smoke. Plain alcohol is to be preferred, and plain alcohol is cheaper.

Please be extremely careful when you are handling alcohol. Do not smoke or get near open flame while you are doing this process. Alcohol can be extremely flammable, and it burns with a flame that is often hard to see until it is too late. Some methods elsewhere recommend evaporating the alcohol off by heating the mixture on a stove. I would NOT recommend that. For one thing, the alcohol vapor can be extremely flammable and, because the flames are hard to see, you can have a big problem (like the whole house burning down) before you know it. For another, the alcohol vapor can get you very seriously drunk in a hurry. Seriously. You can a couple of good whiffs and be staggering.

Step 2. Grind up your weed.

You will get the most out of this process if your cannabis is ground as finely as possible. You can just soak the leaves whole and get satisfactory results, but grinding the weed will allow the alcohol to get to all the plant fiber to get the most out of it. Just put the weed in a blender and let it run until the material is thoroughly pulverized.

Step 3. Soak the marijuana in alcohol

Put the marijuana in a jar that can be sealed tightly and pour the alcohol over it. Put enough alcohol in so there is enough to cover the marijuana completely, and then some. Let it sit for about 24 hours. By the end of 24 hours, the alcohol will have turned distinctly green. (If you have real bunk, the alcohol may turn brown.)

Step 4. Filter out the plant fiber

Pour the liquid through a coffee filter into another jar. This will remove the plant fiber and give you a green alcohol mixture that contains alcohol and the active ingredients from the marijuana.

Step 5. Let the alcohol evaporate.

The final step is to pour the mixture into a bowl and let it evaporate. Depending on the amount of alcohol in the mixture, it might take a day or so.

Some other methods recommend heating the mixture on the stove to evaporate off the alcohol. This can be dangerous, as described above. It is far better to just be patient and let the alcohol evaporate naturally. It takes a little longer, but it is far safer and a lot less work.

This will leave you with a form of hashish. The result will be a thick green kind of tar. It can be difficult to work with or smoke, just because it is so concentrated and sticky, but it is useable at this point.

Step 6. Enjoying the result

Smoking it in a pipe.

If you put this hash oil in a pipe, it will bubble and cook like road tar. Because of this, getting a good high from it may be difficult with conventional smoking methods. It is not that you can't get high -- you can -- it will just be more work than smoking a joint and you may wind up with a clogged pipe. Think of how difficult it is to work with road tar and you will get some idea of what it is like.

Vaporizing it

An alternative method is to put the hash oil in a spoon or on a piece of tin foil. Then heat the spoon or tin foil from below and inhale the smoke that comes off it by using a straw.  Using a conventional vaporizer is not recommended unless you use something to protect the vaporizer from the hash oil melting down into it. Hash oil can be difficult to clean up, and you could just wind up ruining an expensive vaporizer.

Pouring it over other marijuana

An alternative method is to pour the liquid onto another batch of marijuana, and let the alcohol evaporate from that. The end product will be easier to smoke if you do this, because it has the plant fiber to help it burn. You probably don't want to pour it over really good grades of weed, because it will probably change the flavor for the worst. However, if you have some marijuana laying around that is only of mediocre quality, it can improve the quality significantly and make it acceptable for smoking in desperate times.
